var root = document.getElementsByTagName( "html" )[0]; root.setAttribute( "class", "js" );

Hit enter to search or ESC to close

Cultural Translation℠

&#8220;The Marriage-Equality Fight Couldn&#8217;t Have Been Won Without Conservatives&#8221; (The Wall Street Journal)

&#8220;Republicans Have Chosen Nihilism&#8221; (The New York Times)

&#8220;Reaching the Heartland&#8221; (The Revealer)

&#8220;The Woke Right Stands At the Door&#8221; (Persuasion)

Get In Touch With Rich

Cultural Translation℠

Cultural Translation℠ Training: A Revolution of the Heart

If you have any additional questions, please feel free to reach out via

Building Inclusion Skills for Effective Leadership

As workplaces, colleges, and communities grow more diverse, many leaders struggle to create spaces where individuals feel safe sharing differing perspectives. This challenge requires a new kind of leadership—rooted in empathy, strategic inclusion, and the ability to navigate polarizing conversations to achieve innovative, win-win outcomes.

At Public Squared, we help senior executives develop these crucial skills through our Cultural Translation Training. This program equips leaders with practical tools to manage high-conflict situations, foster authentic dialogue, and unlock the potential of diverse perspectives, transforming challenges into opportunities for growth and collaboration.

Join us in creating a workplace culture where

inclusion drives innovation, trust, and strategic advantage

This program goes beyond lecture format and walks participants through a hands-on experience designed to help mitigate polarizing, high-conflict challenges in the workplace.

The program offers a hands-on, 7-step framework that helps leaders gain greater self-awareness, clarify their values, and build bridges with those they disagree with—using the language of shared values. Divided into three key sections—

—the training starts with deepening self-awareness of personal worldviews, moves into understanding and engaging with differing perspectives, and concludes with building bridges through a Cultural Translation Statement.

This program is built on case studies spanning over thirty years and has been implemented across high-level government settings, including the U.S. Navy, the Senior Leader Program for federal employees, and even on an international stage with the Israeli Constituent Assembly. Most recently, it was featured at the Society of Human Resource Managers’ annual INCLUSION Conference, highlighting its profound impact on fostering inclusive leadership.

Join us and become a catalyst for change. This is more than just training—it’s a movement to create leaders who embody empathy, champion diversity, and lead the revolution of the heart in today’s world.

We work with a talented team of executive coaches and leadership development experts, policy and business advisors, as well as community change makers to bring this learning experience to the public. As such our curriculum brings both the academic rigour as well as practical experience into the classroom to help the participants understand how they can apply the learned concepts to their own real life situations immediately.

We partner with public, private, non-profit and faith-based organizations to customize the program experience, including program delivery methods, specific case studies and wrap-around services to their unique leadership and organizational challenges. Don’t hesitate to reach out to our team for a conversation on how this program experience can be translated into your own professional and community culture.

By providing training to today’s leaders, Rich is addressing toxic polarization head on. His message of transformative change will leave [us] ready to get to work building better workplaces for a better world.

Johnny C. Taylor, Jr.

President and Chief Executive Officer, SHRM-SCP

After 35 years, Rich Tafel still helps me see the world in new and better ways. He recently told me about a book he's writing, which explores... [

read full testimonial

Founder &amp; CEO, SameSky Health

jQuery('.linkedin-quote b').wrap("

Rich's work is truly inspiring. [He is] a professional bridge builder who aims to solve seemingly insurmountable problems. From tackling bias head-on to fostering connections between corporations, he has incredible stories to share. He shared that when we strip away ‌surface-level differences, we find that our core values remain the same worldwide.

SHRM C-Suite Executive | Board Member | Speaker

Rich has been an incredible coach to rising social entrepreneurs. I was so fortunate to have him as a coach during this summer. He has clear insights, expectations and suggestions to planning, scaling and running a social enterprise. The opportunities he provides to connect to impact investors are other invaluable parts of his coaching.

Social Entrepreneur and an Educator

Rich's message strongly encourages us to see past the surface and realize that, despite our differences, we all share basic, important values at our core.

CHRO at SHRM I Human Capital Strategy I Talent Acquisition I Leadership Development

Rich's message strongly resonates and is a powerful statement that we are stronger together. Thanks for sharing this and reminding us of the core values.👏

Corporate HR Director @ Diverse Facility Solutions | MBA, Compliance

The Cultural Translation Program © was a powerful framework for understanding the prevailing world views in in America and how to approach each view with understanding and compassion – and to move from contempt and gridlock to empathy and progress in solving problems we all care about.

CEO of the Indigo Education Company

This was one of the more effective short trainings I've been to as a professional peacebuilder. Rich and his team gave me a completely new frame of looking at people's interests and perspectives, and how to speak of those as I try to shape a more peaceful and understanding world.

Program Manager, Common Ground USA/Search for Common Ground

Copyright © Public Squared

Cultural Translation℠

&#8220;The Marriage-Equality Fight Couldn&#8217;t Have Been Won Without Conservatives&#8221; (The Wall Street Journal)

&#8220;Republicans Have Chosen Nihilism&#8221; (The New York Times)

&#8220;Reaching the Heartland&#8221; (The Revealer)

&#8220;The Woke Right Stands At the Door&#8221; (Persuasion)

Get In Touch With Rich

[email&#160;protected]